To finish what we’re going to
talk about is the importance
of psychological factors
in pricing.
It’s something that is quite
interesting and very curious and
I’ll share with you some of
the main effects.
At the end of the use of psychology
to define prices, which allows you,
is something that is not easy,
but what for that price or increase
the average ticket appealing
to certain psychological factors.
I will give you some examples.
There’s one called Anklage, which is
Anchoring in English and you’ll understand
it well.
Look, this is a saying that is very
common in trade, which is how is
the best way to sell a watch for two
thousand dollars?, which is a expensive
watch.
The best way is to put it next
to one in ten thousand, because
at that time the customer is
perceiving it as an opportunity,
as a cheaper watch.
If you put it next to one in fifty,
it’s much more complicated than
selling it.
You will understand this with
this example.
Imagine you go into a store and you’
re going to buy a TV and you
have two options.
And you have a fifty-inch TV that
costs a thousand dollars.
And you have next to you another forty-
eight inches that almost imperceptible
the difference.
Just two inches.
It costs six hundred dollars.
I think everyone is thinking that
the second is a chance.
And it’s very likely that the
retailer really did what you
want you to think is that.
And it could be until
the fifty-inch TV had
a much higher margin.
And what you want is to buy the
forty-eight, but you’ve got it.
Because when you make the comparison,
you have that perception.
This is now being used by
many companies that offer digital
products and services.
Especially software companies
that offer three price
plans.
And you know that we usually tend to
always go to the middle.
And they are also driving us to that price.
We have a plan in which they
offer too basic functionalities.
A plan that is the cheapest.
Maybe another very premium.
And what they do is guide you toward what
they know you’re going to buy.
It is the middle.
I’m going to share with you an
experiment that was done with beer.
In this experiment the mass,
i.e. the basis of the study,
were only five people.
It’s very low, but I think it’s
quite representative of a number
of conclusions.
They started by offering two beers.
One beer for one for eighty dollars
and another beer more expensive for two
and a half.
And what they checked out is that four
out of five people what they did
was choose the most expensive one.
The two and a half.
Why is?
Because it is a very low ticket and
the price sensitivity is very low
in such quantities.
You’ll drink a beer, almost like
you don’t care.
You go to the most expensive, which is definitely
the best.
So what they did is let’s see how
it affects the fact of respecting
these two prices and incorporating
a slightly more economical option.
Because there are people who want,
I don’t know, that there are people who
have more sensitivity to the price
that they want to buy the cheapest.
The result was very bad.
The cheapest one they got
first was not bought.
Instead of four out of five
people choosing the two-and-
a-half-euro price, four
out of five people chose beer
for beer with an intermediate
price of eighty.
They had reduced their average
ticket considerably.
Well, the conclusion, that was the best.
If you want your customers
to buy beer that costs
$2 and a half, you have
to put one more and put
another more expensive.
And it worked, because 85% chose
the two-and-a-half euros.
I think this is something that we are
all very aware of when, especially
in products that you don’t know or
that you know little or that there
is little comparative,
you usually tend to discard the cheapest
and discard the most expensive.
What we have seen this
experiment is proof of that.
Another psychological effect
we have to consider is that we have
to help customers make the decision
and I’m going to share
with you another experiment.
They were offered two chips, two
packages of chips that were different
but at the same price.
Well, it turned out, it was curiously
that when the chips were offered
at the same price only 46% of
people bought because they
were in a block section.
Costly to choose, you were not
helping the customer to One of the packages
a little more expensive than the
other, what will happen?
Well, what happened is
that 46% of sales
closed in a 77.
It is the proof that if we help the
customer make the decision, if
we overcome that blocking situation,
conversion is much easier.
Another effect that we have to take into
account and that is also that it is ultra-
controled, which has an enormous
impact, is what they call in English
fear of missing out, which is something
very human and is the fear
of losing something.
And for example on Amazon we can see
it because good on Amazon and in
many e-commerce in which when you are
going to buy something they are
warning you of the units that
remain or that they are few and they
are appealing just this and they
have it ultra proven that it works.
In the case of, for example,
platforms like Booking still take
you more to the extreme because
they are always permanently
when you are looking for a hotel
tell you people who are seeing
it to the places that remain etc.
It’s something you have to know
and you should use if you have the
opportunity to do so.
There are other very psychological
factors that are very curious and that
almost common sense here does not
apply but that knowing them
can come well.
For example, it is proven, ultra-
proven, that men when we see prices
or discounts in red respond better
than if they are in or for example
this study what was done in
a menu put prices in three
different formats at different
times.
One put the symbol of the dollar in
another did not put the symbol of the
dollar and in the last what was
done is to write it put the
word dollar.
Well, it was found that customers
responded better when the dollar
symbol was not put and the
shorter the price was, the
much better it is better not
to put decimals etc.
Another curious thing that seems
stupid but works is that if you
put the prices smaller the
customers perceive that they
are cheaper.
And finally we’ll end up with
something we’ve all put up many
times and that’s why everyone puts
the prices finished on in the 9
because instead of putting 500
499 399 100 99 etc.
They are mainly two factors one
is that we tend to stay with the
first number and not with the last
and two is that curiously and this
is more difficult to understand
curiously always work better prices
that have a 9 than when they have
another type of digit and for example
it was found that making a discount
of 60 what was done is a discount
of 60 to 45 dollars compared
with making that discount
of 60 to 49 dollars.
Common sense tells us that the
discount of 40 to 65 that is greater
that discount would have worked
better since curiously not.
Interestingly, it worked better from
$60 to $49.
Well as we have seen these are
several examples that human
psychology is very complex but
it is proven that it works so
it is convenient to know
them and use them to the
extent possible.